okay for this installment of the QA
let's try to make a short video that is
actually short I had questions from
several people including some new
members who joined after the Q&A started
wanting me to address pet ownership
further I do actually feel that my
videos on this are already exhaustive
and clear enough and I don't really want
to say anything further about it those
of you who have written to disagree with
me do I respect your opinions do I find
them valid or intelligent or well
informed or interesting no I think the
responses to what I have said of pet
ownership have been astoundingly stupid
counterproductive people in indulging in
self-delusion and they've avoided
addressing any of the points I raised in
my video so why should I respond to what
you have to say you've completely
avoided dealing with a very real moral
problems I've presented to you okay what
how do you justify buying a dead cow
chopped up and put in a can and feeding
it to your cat if you're a vegan what
why not just admit you can't justify it
why not admits a problem in a
contradiction we can move forward if you
can admit that but if you can't I mean I
described at length an earlier video the
quandary of a vegan a hypothetical vegan
who has in two separate rooms of his
house pet cats and pet rats every so
often he kills some of the rats and
feeds them to the cat horrifying
terrible I'm unforgivable okay so why is
it not horrifying and unforgivable when
he goes out and buys a dead animal in a
can to feed it to another day another
animal
this is speciesism what we're all
supposed to be opposed to but in fact
all vegans indulge in at great length
alright now I've said a million times
real life is full of contradictions and
nuance and complications in real life
you know if you rescue an endangered
tiger and you're going to keep it in
captivity what even if you're planning
to reintroduce it to the wild as soon as
you can every day you've got that tiger
in captivity you're probably killing
cows and lambs nothing's to keep that
tiger alive life is not perfect
but maybe you personally have to make
the hard decision to try to keep that
tiger alive killing other animals to do
it
it's it's a moral quandary it's a moral
contradiction but in that case you're
doing it in order to prevent an
endangered species from going extinct
and you're doing it hopefully to try to
reintroduce that Tiger into the wild not
to keep it in a zoo forever or not to
keep it in a in a circus not to keep it
as entertainment or a pet so the
justification for that if if the cat is
just to be a pet just to make you happy
just so your kids can play with it just
so it can decorate your couch
this becomes immoral again in many of
the same ways that keeping zoo animals
is immoral but oh no this is unthinkable
to compare keeping pets in your personal
menagerie in your house for your
entertainment to think that this is any
way comparable to a zoo whoo oh no no oh
no no and yes we've had such incredibly
intelligent responses saying oh no it's
different because I love them yes well
you certainly convinced me if you found
the paradigm I presented of the vegan
who owns pet rats as well as pet cats if
you found that horrifying why would it
be more or less horrifying if I as a
vegan let's say inside my house have 40
cats have rescued 40 cats from the
streets but those 40 cats eat a lot of
meat so in the backyard
I keep lambs I keep pet sheep and once a
week I got to go out and kill one of the
Sheep chop it up into pieces and feed it
the cats how does it sound to you vegan
sounds like speciesism to me sounds like
you've decided the lives of those cats
justify killing killing those sheep why
not do the opposite why not kill the
cats and let the Sheep live long natural
healthy lives why what's the
justification you love them you love the
cats and you don't love the Sheep you
love the cats you don't love the cows
and again if you take a step back this
is the same issue we deal with with meat
eaters all the time so how is it
different if I owned the Sheep and I
killed them myself or if I'm going to
the pet food store and I'm buying a
metal can where someone else has already
killed a lamb and put it in a can for
the cats to eat whether it's a lamb or a
cow what have you all right I mean you
know it's kid stuff no I don't respect
everyone's opinion equally I have
not heard any intelligent response to
this I have heard response to this issue
that are so stupid and so self-indulgent
as to be absurd and as a saint not a few
people actually respect or respond to
the points I made so I really see no
reason to responsibles you may which I
do sincerely regard as too stupid to
take seriously okay so what is the
mature attitude to take towards these
things as I've said in many many videos
it's just to admit there are some
problems we can't solve overnight
whether we're talking about you know
vivisection you know scientific research
exploiting animals or you know there are
there are all kinds of nasty horrible
gray areas and vegans were killing
insects in order to raise fruit killing
animals in order to raise true because
you got to kill mammals a lot of time on
a farm had actually had one intelligent
comment in the Q&A but it wasn't really
a question but a guy talked about his
own experience working on an organic
farm and you know guess what you kill
animals if not every day certainly every
week you're killing mammals as well as
killing insects the whole process of
farming yeah okay there are
contradictions veganism is not some
perfect mathematical formula where you
manage to do zero harm and achieve a
perfect spiritual good it's not veganism
is you know as messy and internally
contradictory as anything else that
involves ethics ecology agriculture
social change life is not perfect and of
course they're all the other
connotations too they're all all the
time I get questions you know people
want to ask me about the ethics of how
clothing factories are pretty fine good
question but it's not veganism you know
you want to talk about war great but
it's not fitting to them so if veganism
doesn't solve all problems
and you shouldn't hold up veganism next
to a perfect or ideal standard the other
point is the fact that there are no
perfect solutions doesn't mean there are
no solutions doesn't mean there's
nothing you can do doesn't mean you're
disempowered by this discourse you can
feel empowered by recognizing the
contradictions and embracing imperfect
solutions for imperfect and messy
problems so one of my fans here I think
she's no longer with us
I think she's quit the patreon but one
of my fans on patreon wrote
me that she was really inspired by what
I had to say about pet ownership and she
looked at her own situation with her pet
rabbits so these were rabbits that were
rescued not bought but she did acquire
the rabbits in order to entertain her
children so you know they were rescued
but again ultimately like zoo animals
are like circus animals these animals
are being kept alive you know to
entertain human beings as accoutrement
for um you know a bourgeois a human
lifestyle they're not they're not being
reintroduced into the wild they're not
being you know they don't exist to have
their own children to live their own
lives to you know pray and be preyed
upon you know they are being kept they
are being domesticated for our
entertainment so we can a quote love
unquote them uh-huh
but she had followed up two before she
saw my video she had followed the advice
of vets who told her that the the rabbit
should I should kept entirely indoors
their whole lives and the vets have the
reasons for that
if the rabbits are outdoors they may be
preyed upon you know a bird a bird of
prey
can come down and kill them a fox or a
badger or I think even a raccoon can
come in and kill a rabbit if it's in
your backyard if it's outdoors and I
think there are some other reasons some
of the diseases they can get from going
out freely and and eating eating wild
grass with it okay so you know there's a
rationale there for why that would say
that but this fan of mine she watched my
videos and she thought about it and the
basic point I made you know like about
penguins yeah life is full of
contradictions sometimes for various
reasons you end up having to keep
Penguins in captivity to prevent them
from going extinct or to try to keep
them temporarily until they can be
reduced reintroduced into the wild
there's been a disaster you know an oil
tanker has covered their habitat with
oil and we've got to keep them in
captivity until they can go back to
living in the ocean all kinds of reasons
but what do you do with those penguins
you don't chop their balls off and try
to turn them into house pets you don't
try to turn them into zoo creatures or
entertainment or circus performers you
don't try to domesticate them until
they're cute and lovable and sit on your
couch patiently while you watch TV
try to make them entertainment you try
to keep them in a habitat that is as
close as possible to what their
conditions in the wild would be which
can be extremely expensive and extremely
difficult to provide an artificial
habitat for for penguins very very
difficult so you know this fan of mine
looking at her own rabbits these rabbits
had lived their whole lives on a
concrete floor they'd never had the
experience of digging in the soft earth
they never looked up and seen a blue sky
over their heads
terribly sad so she did what she could
she actually went out and bought a hush
you know a small wooden house a
miniaturized for these rabbits put it in
her backyard and she changed these
rabbits lives by letting them roam
freely around the backyard during the
day and at night she puts them in the
hutch and she's you know she could see
the rabbit all their behavior was
totally transformed for the first time
they got to indulge in some of their
wild behaviors not all but they were in
a context that was closer to their
natural wild environment they got to dig
in the earth they got to dig burrows
they got to eat grass they got to nibble
on dandelions and yes you know what it's
possible that instead of living for a
greater number of years on a concrete
floor and never experiencing those
things it's possible that one of these
days a falcon will swoop down and kill
the rabbits it's possible that some
other predator is gonna kill them as
possible their life will be cut short
but you know what death is a part of
life and I don't know how vegans can
lack a mature attitude towards that yeah
you know what animals in the wild live
for a shorter time than they do in
captivity if you think that's a
justification for captivity I think
you're not vegan honestly if you think
that through I mean you know yes you
know what every lion that exists in the
wild today could live a longer life if
we destroyed their life in the wild took
them out of their natural habitat
domesticated them yeah you know what
every lion in Africa could be removed
from the wild and put into a zoo or
another man-made situation investigating
could be trained and could be castrated
and could be fed dead cows out of a
meadow can we do that with every line in
the world and we live a longer healthier
life and some of you would even say
would lead a happier life and would have
owners who love them
those those lions would feel loved by
human beings you think really if you if
you subscribe to that paradigm I don't I
don't think you are vegan I think you
haven't thought through the implications
what veganism really means and as I say
for me the moral baseline for veganism
is not domesticated animals its
wilderness it's looking at how animals
live in the wild whether that's a wild
chicken sowing many of you have never
seen how chickens actually behave in the
jungle or a wild boar not a you know Pig
that's it
and again look I don't respect
everyone's opinion s equally valid a
bunch of people wrote in to be claiming
that that pigs domesticated pigs are
incapable of reverting to their feral
behaviors you didn't Google even what I
mentioned in the earth your videos we
joking Google feral pigs a matter of
weeks pigs that escaped from farms
revert to their wild behaviors and they
actually recover their their
characteristics the well-cared
remarkably quickly
pigs go feral rapidly dogs all these
claims total pseudoscience claiming that
dogs have evolved to be human toys and
lack the ability to go feral really you
never you've never dealt with their I
have of delyth feral dogs I google this
you think dogs don't go feral in like a
couple weeks revert to all their complex
social behaviors complex pack behaviors
there so look all this I'm sorry I
really think that Western University
education
encourages us to maintain a phony veneer
of treating all opinions equally because
every undergraduate student and every
high school student is supposed to take
two weeks read a few little bits of
articles put together an essay and then
write in a style that pretends the
student really has a level of expertise
equal to the sources he or she is
quoting from western academia gives us a
kind of phony egalitarianism of
knowledge and knowledge is not equal you
know I mean either you know about these
things and read about them and are
willing to you know in a Socratic sense
discuss them openly and see you know the
the faults in your own argument and
learn new things or you're not and no I
I you know this is just not a case I am
honestly right now I regret even
discussing this in this video because I
do think my earlier videos on this
subject raised a really important
argument and I don't think I've seen
even one person respond to the substance
that argument in a way that's
interesting or merits any further reply
or comment on my point and of course for
those of you know that includes
unnatural vegan I mean obviously I
appreciate that a natural vegan has
shown me support in my recent dealing
with threats of violence defamation with
the ridiculous
you know catastrophe that went down in
Chiangmai but know what she has to say
about this topic there is not even one
sentence of it that I think merits a
serious intellectual introspection
reflection or critique to me what's in a
stuffing is beneath contempt and it is
in a word stupid so question two out of
two here again I wanted this video to be
short but I'm keeping it real with y'all
people are asking my thoughts of a Peter
Singer my honest opinion about Peter
Singer just like what I've been saying
about these alternate views of
domestication of animals the the
valorisation of the domestication of
animals in veganism what Peter Singer
has to say is so stupid is so totally
beneath contempt that I see nothing in
it that's worth talking about or
replying to that is how I feel now
honestly that's how I've always felt I
don't know what set of circumstances led
to him being celebrated in the
mainstream media as a major voice he's
not even really a voice for veganism but
for vegetarianism of some sort I you
know I'm sorry but I mean neither in his
formal writing nor in his informal
interviews have I ever heard like one
sentence from that guy that I respect or
that I find inspiring or that I can take
seriously or even that I regard is
really worthy of the kind of critique
that I've offered to other people on
this on this channel I mean like you
know as bad as direct action everywhere
is because I have several videos
critique criticizing direct action
everywhere I do recognize the direct
action of where our sincere and
passionate vegan activists I do
recognize that they're offering a model
that many people desire ardently that
they respond to with
passion and so I really felt there was a
lot to critique that it was worthwhile
to critique direct action everywhere
just being real with you I I have never
seen anything of that kind of substance
from from Peter Singer I got nothing
more to say I mean if you're wondering
why have I never thought I made a video
about Peter Singer I honestly I mean
including when you see it in his eyes
when he's talking he will face the face
in a television interview
I just find what he has to say stupid
and stupidity is real and again this is
the opposite of an academic university
program approach were supposed to
pretend everyone's opinion is equally
valid and equally well informed if we're
really being honest then we also we have
to be honest about our own feelings
they're about our own impressions about
our own judgments and you know we we
have to be honest about stupidity also
so I mean some of the you know some some
of the examples you know Peter Singer
what he says about disabled babies his
kind of whole phony utilitarianism
approach to reality I don't talk about
any of it I'd rather talk about the
philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer I'd
rather talk about Nietzsche or Hegel me
Hegel is terrible Hegel is a [ __ ] but
at least it's influential on people yeah
I don't know we could talk about Karl
Marx we talk anything what what Peter
Singer has to say is philosophy with
adventure stuff honestly sincerely I
just think it is so stupid that it does
not merit talking about so look guys I'm
sorry I I hope you feel I mean my tone
of voice here I don't I don't get a kick
out of this if you guys didn't ask these
questions I wouldn't have answered them
I to me there's nothing mean-spirited
there's no celebration there's no sense
I get nothing out of it let me tell you
maybe I'm not even gonna upload this
video but um no I mean there are some
things I don't want to talk about
because I really think they're they're
too stupid to be worth discussing